KARLSRUHE, Germany, March 10 (Reuters) - German police said on Friday it had arrested a male suspect after a special unit stormed a pharmacy in the southwestern city of Karlsruhe where multiple people had been held hostage for hours. A number of explosions were heard when officers in tactical gear entered the pharmacy in the city centre after first arriving on the scene at around 4:30 p.m. "A special unit entered the pharmacy at 21:10; a male suspect was arrested," Karlsruhe police said on Twitter. Officers restrained a man they had brought out of the pharmacy, covered his head in a blanket and bundled him into a car. The building was being searched and there appeared to be no injuries, they said. The incident follows Thursday's deadly rampage at a Jehovah's Witnesses hall in Hamburg, putting the country on edge. Gun violence is rare in Germany. [1/5] German police vehicles are seen at the scene of a hostage situation inside a pharmacy in Karlsruhe, Germany March 10, 2023 in this screen grab from video. Reuters TV/via REUTERS Earlier police said in a joint statement with prosecutors that there were "multiple" hostages involved. Police had cordoned off Karlsruhe city centre where multiple blue and grey police vehicles with flashing lights lined the streets. The Stuttgarter Zeitung reported that two people had been taken hostage and that there was a demand for a ransom of a single-digit million euro sum. The police spokesperson declined to comment on the report. Earlier Germany's Bild newspaper had reported that the police were in contact with the alleged hostage-taker. Karlsruhe, not far from the French border, is a city of some 300,000 people and home to the Federal Court of Justice, Germany's highest court. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Covers German finance with a focus on big banks, insurance companies, regulation and financial crime, previous experience at the Wall Street Journal and New York Times in Europe and Asia. Thomson Reuters Riham Alkousaa is the energy and climate change correspondent for Reuters in Germany, covering Europe’s biggest economy's green transition and Europe’s energy crisis. Alkousaa is a Columbia University Journalism School graduate and has 10 years of experience as a journalist covering Europe’s refugee crisis and the Syrian civil war for publications such Der Spiegel Magazine, USA Today and the Washington Times. Alkousaa was on two teams that won Reuters Journalist of the year awards in 2022 for her coverage of Europe’s energy crisis and the Ukraine war. She has also won the Foreign Press Association Award in 2017 in New York and the White House Correspondent Association Scholarship that year.