March 10 (Reuters) - Here are some key quotes and reactions after Iran and Saudi Arabia agreed on Friday to re-establish relations in deal announced after four days of previously undisclosed talks in Beijing. Tehran and Riyadh agreed "to resume diplomatic relations between them and re-open their embassies and missions within a period not exceeding two months". "The agreement includes their affirmation of the respect for the sovereignty of states and the non-interference in internal affairs," the statement said. "The Kingdom's leadership welcomes the initiative of His Excellency President Xi Jinping, based on the Kingdom's consistent and continuous approach since its establishment in adhering to the principles of good neighbourliness, taking everything that would enhance security and stability in the region and the world, and adopting the principle of dialogue and diplomacy to resolve differences." "While we value what we have reached, we hope that we will continue to continue the constructive dialogue, in accordance with the pillars and foundations included in the agreement, expressing our appreciation for the People's Republic of China's continued positive role in this regard." "The neighbourhood policy, as the key axis of the Iranian government’s foreign policy, is strongly moving in the right direction and the diplomatic apparatus is actively behind the preparation of more regional steps." CHINA'S TOP DIPLOMAT WANG YI "This is a victory for dialogue, a victory for peace, offering major good news at a time of much turbulence in the world." China will continue to play a constructive role in handling hotspot issues in the world and demonstrate its responsibility as a major nation, Wang said. "The world is not just limited to the Ukraine issue," he said. "Better relations between Israel and their Arab neighbours are better for everybody," he said after being asked by reporters about the Iran-Saudi deal. WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL SPOKESPERSON JOHN KIRBY "Generally speaking, we welcome any efforts to help end the war in Yemen and de-escalate tensions in the Middle East region. De-escalation and diplomacy together with deterrence are key pillars of the policy President Biden outlined during his visit to the region last year," Kirby said. "The Saudis did keep us informed about these talks that they were having, just as we keep them informed on our engagements, but we weren't directly involved." U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres welcomed the deal and praised China, Oman and Iraq for promoting the talks. "Good neighbourly relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia are essential for the stability of the Gulf region," U.N. spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said in a statement. "The Secretary-General reiterates his readiness to use his good offices to further advance regional dialogue to ensure durable peace and security in the Gulf region," he said. "The region needs the resumption of normal ties between its countries for the Islamic nation to reclaim its lost security as a result of foreign interference." HEZBOLLAH The head of Lebanon's powerful armed group said the resumption of ties between its backer Iran and longtime rival Saudi Arabia was a "good development". "This is a win-win for everyone and will benefit regional and global security. We hope in the longer term there’s also potential for increasing economic benefits for all." "We welcome the agreement between Saudi Arabia and Iran to resume diplomatic relations, and we hail the Chinese role in this regard," he tweeted. "The UAE believes in the importance of positive communication and dialogue among the countries of the region towards consolidating the concepts of good neighbourliness and starting from a common ground to build a more stable future for all." Prime Minister Sheikh Mohammed Bin Abdulrahman al-Thani, who also acts as foreign minister, called the foreign ministers of Iran and Saudi Arabia to welcome the deal. Iraq welcomes "turning a new page" between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Hopes agreement will contribute to easing of tension in the region. "Further regional instability is not in Saudi or Iranian interest at the moment." "And for the Chinese to have addressed this at a time when the U.S. stance toward Iran is becoming more hawkish sends a powerful signal in itself." Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.