LONDON, March 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - The travails of Silicon Valley Bank (SIVB.O) are rippling across the global banking system, wiping billions off the market capitalisations of HSBC (HSBA.L), Deutsche Bank (DBKGn.DE) and JPMorgan (JPM.N). It doesn’t make much sense, because the goliaths have little in common with the troubled Californian lender. It’s nonetheless a useful reminder that rising interest rates bring risks as well as benefits. The STOXX Europe 600 Banks Index (.SX7P), which comprises UK and euro zone-based groups, fell 4% on Friday morning, tracking similar declines by U.S.-based giants the previous day. Bank of America (BAC.N) and Wells Fargo (WFC.N) were both down around 6%. The trigger for the selloff seems to have been a $1.8 billion equity issue by SVB Financial, which does business as Silicon Valley Bank. Shrinking deposits saw Chief Executive Greg Becker sell down a $21 billion portfolio of Treasury and agency mortgage bonds. Those securities have fallen in value as interest rates have risen. The losses created a hole in the balance sheet, necessitating the capital hike. Its shares fell 60% on Thursday. Such a scenario is practically unthinkable at a global, systemically important bank. Those institutions are unlikely to suffer anything like the same level of deposit outflows. About 60% of deposit funding at large U.S. banks comes from retail customers, according to JPMorgan analysts, who tend to stay put. Compare that with SVB’s customer base, which is tilted towards cash-starved startups. Second, even if a big lender did have to sell, it wouldn’t necessarily suffer an equity shortfall. Large U.S. banks, unlike smaller ones, must deduct paper losses on parts of their securities portfolios from their capital every quarter. That limits any incremental hit from a rushed sale. In Europe, meanwhile, banks often sit on piles of sovereign bonds that aren’t for sale, and are therefore not marked to market prices. Still, there’s a microscopic grain of truth behind investors’ concerns. As interest rates rise banks are charging more for loans. But customers, particularly companies and wealthy individuals, are also shifting their money around in search of a better return. Lenders have to pay up to keep them, or risk having to fund more of their balance sheets in pricier wholesale markets. That’s a major change, since banks have in recent years had more deposits than they needed. The lesson is that higher rates have a cost, but it’s hardly a cause for panic. Follow @liamwardproud on Twitter CONTEXT NEWS The STOXX Europe 600 Banks Index fell by 4% as of 1022 GMT on March 10, following a similar decline by U.S.-listed bank stocks on March 9. SVB Financial on March 8 launched a $1.8 billion share sale to shore up its balance sheet. SVB, which does business as Silicon Valley Bank, said in an investor prospectus that it needed the proceeds to plug a hole caused by the sale of a $21 billion bond portfolio consisting partly of U.S. Treasury securities. The portfolio, with an average 3.6-year duration, yielded 1.79%. U.S. three-year and five year bonds currently yield 4.5% and 4.1% respectively. (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.) Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.