(Reuters) - Transatlantic law firm Hogan Lovells and New York-founded Shearman & Sterling have called off merger talks, the two firms said in a joint statement. "As has been widely reported, our firms have been in preliminary and exploratory conversations regarding a possible combination," the firms said. "After careful consideration, we have mutually agreed that a combination at this time is not in the best interest of either firm." The two firms in December acknowledged reports of early-stage merger discussions, without confirming or denying the talks. The American Lawyer first reported late Thursday that the talks were called off. A deal between 2,600-lawyer Hogan Lovells and 850-lawyer Shearman would have represented one of the biggest mergers in recent years, creating a top global firm by revenue. Shearman has seen a series of partner departures for rival firms in recent months, particularly outside of the United States. In the latest exit, a group of 20 lawyers and advisors from Shearman's Munich office have left to join Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, and will launch a new office for the firm there, Morgan Lewis said Friday. Three partners, including M&A lawyer Florian Harder, who was head of Shearman's German offices, are part of the team. Shearman spokespeople did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the group's departure. It is not uncommon for law firms to begin talks for a merger that does not come to fruition, as issues including client conflicts and other potential mismatches can derail discussions. Last month, global law firm Womble Bond Dickinson and smaller U.K. firm BDB Pitmans said they called off merger talks after "extensive discussions." The pace of law firm mergers has increased in recent months. Holland & Knight on Wednesday completed its merger with Nashville-based Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis, creating a firm with nearly 2,000 lawyers. Other tie-ups include Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe's combination with Buckley. Read more: Law firms Womble and BDB Pitmans call off merger talks Hogan Lovells, Shearman & Sterling respond to reports of merger talks Hogan Lovells sees revenue dip after record-breaking 2021 Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Sara Merken reports on privacy and data security, as well as the business of law, including legal innovation and key players in the legal services industry. Reach her at sara.merken@thomsonreuters.com