(Reuters) - The federal judiciary is preparing to do something other parts of the U.S. government did in the 1990s: Hire a chief information officer, a position Congress's watchdog agency has said would bring much-needed oversight to its tech projects. As part of a $9.1 billion budget request released on Thursday, the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts told Congress it planned to hire a CIO, citing a "need for a strengthened role for IT leadership" within the judiciary. It referenced a July 2022 report by the Government Accountability Office, a non-partisan congressional watchdog, that found insufficient oversight had hampered some of the judiciary's biggest tech projects and caused gaps in its IT workforce's cybersecurity skills. While the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 established the position of CIO at two dozen major executive branch agencies, the judicial branch has been under no obligation to have one, leading to a decentralized approach to overseeing its IT staff and projects. The GAO cited that the lack of top-down oversight has contributed to many of the judiciary's biggest tech projects, like an overhaul of its financial disclosure system, incurring cost increases and schedule overruns. "The buck has to stop with someone," said Gabe Roth, executive director of the court reform group Fix the Court. He welcomed the news that a CIO would be hired. Jaculine Koszczuk, a spokesperson for the Administrative Office, said the agency is now in the process of recruiting one, which the budget document said it plans to do this spring. The funding to support the incoming CIO makes up a tiny piece of the judiciary's overall request for $9.1 billion in discretionary funding for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, an increase of 8% from the current fiscal year. Thursday's budget proposal also includes a request for an additional $156.7 million to support a multi-year cybersecurity and IT modernization plan which aims in part to address vulnerabilities in its aging systems. Three "hostile foreign actors" breached the judiciary's document-filing system in 2020, Democratic Representative Jerrold Nadler, who at the time headed the House of Representatives Judiciary Committee, told a hearing last year. The judiciary is also moving forward with modernizing that system, which it first adopted in 2001, and the related online documents portal known as PACER, though it remains resistant to legislation that would make records free for the public in the absence of a reliable replacement revenue stream. (NOTE: This story has been updated to clarify the judiciary's position on the free PACER bill.) Read more: U.S. Supreme Court seeks funding boost to protect the justices U.S. judiciary receives security funding boost in massive spending bill Congressional watchdog faults judiciary's IT oversight, cost overruns U.S. Justice Department probing cyber breach of federal court records system Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Nate Raymond reports on the federal judiciary and litigation. He can be reached at nate.raymond@thomsonreuters.com.