(Reuters) - The Illinois federal judge handling multidistrict litigation over claims that hair relaxers sold by L’Oreal USA Inc and other companies cause cancer and other health problems has appointed the Ben Crump Law Firm, DiCello Levitt and two other firms as lead counsel for the plaintiffs. U.S. District Judge Mary Rowland in Chicago on Thursday named Diandra "Fu" Debrosse Zimmermann and Ben Crump as co-lead counsel, along with Fidelma Fitzpatrick of Motley Rice and Michael London of Douglas & London. Zimmermann and Crump filed the first lawsuit connecting the hair relaxer products, which contain specific chemicals to permanently straighten textured hair and are typically marketed to people of color, to uterine cancer in October. London said his firm has 11 of the cases on file so far. Zimmermann, Crump and Fitzpatrick did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The cases name the U.S. subsidiary of L'Oreal SA and subsidiaries of India-based companies Godrej SON Holdings Inc and Dabur International Ltd. All of the companies opposed MDL consolidation. A spokesman for L'Oreal declined to comment. Representatives for Godrej and Dabur did not immediately respond to requests for comment. In a statement posted online after the first lawsuits were filed, L'Oreal said it is "confident in the safety of our products and believe the recent lawsuits filed against us have no legal merit." The first lawsuit was brought just days after the release of a National Institutes of Health study in October that found women who used the products several times a year were more than twice as likely to develop uterine cancer. Court records show that about 75 cases have been filed in the MDL, which was formed at the beginning of February. The lawsuits allege the companies knew their products contained dangerous chemicals but marketed and sold them anyway. Rowland also appointed a plaintiffs’ liaison counsel, a nine-member plaintiffs’ executive committee, and named another 21 lawyers to a plaintiffs’ steering committee. The case is In re Hair Relaxer Marketing Sales Practices and Products Liability Litigation, U.S. District Court for the District of Illinois Eastern Division, MDL No. 3060 Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.