(Reuters) - A federal judge in Chicago on Friday entered a not guilty plea for disbarred attorney Tom Girardi, who was charged last month with misappropriating more than $3 million in settlement funds that belonged to families of victims of a 2018 plane crash. U.S. Magistrate Judge Jeffrey Cummings set bail at $250,000 and said Girardi's brother Robert, his appointed conservator, is responsible for covering it. Girardi's attorney, federal public defender Seema Ahmad, told the court her client is living in a facility for Alzheimer's treatment. Cummings gave her until Wednesday to file a motion asking for a hearing to determine whether Girardi is competent to stand trial. Separate competency proceedings have already been set in motion in Los Angeles federal court, where Girardi was charged last month with embezzling $15 million from clients between 2010 and 2020, Ahmad said. Ahmad did not immediately respond to a request for comment, nor did a spokesperson for the Chicago U.S. Attorney's Office. Girardi was charged in Chicago alongside David Lira, his son-in-law, and Christopher Kamon, the former chief financial officer of his defunct law firm Girardi Keese. Lira also worked at Girardi Keese. They each face eight counts of wire fraud and four counts of criminal contempt of court. Lira and Kamon have pleaded not guilty. Chicago federal prosecutor Corey Rubenstein said each count could result up to 20 years in prison. The charges stem from allegations that Girardi, Lira and Kamon misappropriated more than $3 million in client funds owed to families of the victims of the 2018 Boeing 737 MAX Lion Air Flight 610 crash in Indonesia. The crash killed all 189 onboard. Girardi, 83, was a prominent figure in the plaintiffs bar before the Lion Air allegations first emerged and led to the collapse of his law firm in late 2020. Girardi is the estranged husband of Erika Jayne Girardi, a singer and a star on the reality TV show "Real Housewives of Beverly Hills." Girardi and Kamon have also pleaded not guilty to the Los Angeles charges. The judge in that case also set Girardi's bail at $250,000. Read more: Lawyer Tom Girardi to face competency review after not guilty plea California lawyer Tom Girardi charged with stealing client funds Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters David Thomas reports on the business of law, including law firm strategy, hiring, mergers and litigation. He is based out of Chicago. He can be reached at d.thomas@thomsonreuters.com and on Twitter @DaveThomas5150.