(Reuters) - A federal judge has dismissed a lawsuit by defunct medical testing company LabMD Inc accusing the U.S. Federal Trade Commission of aiding a data security company in an illegal "shakedown." U.S. District Judge Michael Brown in Atlanta ruled Thursday that the 2021 lawsuit was filed too late, and was barred by the government's sovereign immunity. The FTC declined to comment. A lawyer for LabMD did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The allegations in the case go back to 2008, when Pennsylvania-based Tiversa Holding Corp told Georgia's LabMD that it had found a document containing patient information on a peer-to-peer network and offered its services to address the leak. LabMD claimed that Tiversa itself hacked LabMD's files using tools it obtained after being hired by federal investigators to go after child pornography. It said that Tiversa fabricated evidence that LabMD data had been stolen by a third party and had spread across the internet, and passed the fabricated evidence on the FTC, which launched an investigation. LabMD further claimed that the FTC knew or should have known about the false evidence, and was participating in a "shakedown" with Tiversa. Tiversa, which was acquired by corporate intelligence firm Kroll Inc in 2017, has flatly denied all of these allegations. The FTC's case against LabMD was ultimately dismissed for reasons unrelated to LabMD's claims, but LabMD went out of business in the course of defending the case. LabMD and its CEO, Michael Daugherty, have been pressing their shakedown conspiracy allegations in several lawsuits, including a now-dismissed case against two FTC attorneys filed in 2015, and a defamation lawsuit against Tiversa, which was recently revived by an appeals court. LabMD also filed an administrative complaint with the FTC in September 2020, and filed its case against the agency in the Georgia court after that complaint was rejected. Brown said in Thursday's order that the case against the government must be time-barred because it made essentially the same claims as the 2015 lawsuit against the FTC lawyers, meaning LabMD knew of the alleged conduct by 2015. Tort claims against the government have a two-year statute of limitations. LabMD said that it had learned some additional details in October 2018, meaning that its initial administrative complaint was filed within the limitations period. Brown, however, said the "core factual allegations" were the same. Brown further said that the case was barred by sovereign immunity, which generally shields the government from lawsuits. LabMD had said the lawsuit was allowed by the Federal Tort Claims Act, which waives sovereign immunity for injury or loss of property caused by a government employee acting in an official capacity. Brown, however, said the case was covered by an exception to the Federal Tort Claims Act that preserves sovereign immunity for "discretionary" government functions. The judge said such functions include FTC investigations, because whether to investigate involves an element of judgment or choice, and implicates public policy concerns. The case is LabMD Inc v. United States, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia, No. 1:21-cv-03525. For LabMD: Thomas Clarkson of Griffin Durham Tanner & Clarkson For the government: Assistant U.S. Attorney Aaron Ross Read more: U.S. agency loses appeal over alleged LabMD data security lapses Defamation case accusing cybersecurity firm Tiversa of extortion revived Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Brendan Pierson reports on product liability litigation and on all areas of health care law. He can be reached at brendan.pierson@thomsonreuters.com.