(Reuters) - Gun-control nonprofit Everytown for Gun Safety has settled a lawsuit it brought against websites that offered 3D-printing designs for "ghost guns" bearing the group's logo, an Everytown representative confirmed. "3-D gun repository" Defcad Inc, gun-printing file provider The Gatalog, and six individuals agreed to take down files that Everytown accused of violating its trademarks, according to documents filed in Manhattan federal court Thursday. A spokesperson for Everytown said the group was "gratified that we were able to work with the parties to reach a resolution and bring this matter to a close." Representatives for the defendants did not immediately respond to requests for comment. New York-based Everytown was formed in 2013 through a merger of gun-control groups Mayors Against Illegal Guns and Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. The group's advocacy includes calling for regulation of "ghost guns," homemade firearms that can be manufactured through 3D printing and are difficult to trace. Everytown in 2021 sued Defcad and The Gatalog, which offer files that can be used to print ghost gun parts. The group said the files include instructions for printing gun components that feature Everytown's name, logo and other trademarks. Everytown also sued individual users of those sites and the website Odysee, citing files they allegedly uploaded and social media posts mocking the group with pictures of the guns they made. The group accused the defendants of causing consumer confusion and hurting its advocacy efforts. The defendants argued last year that the New York court lacked jurisdiction over them. The case was sent to mediation last July. The case is Everytown for Gun Safety Action Fund Inc v. Defcad Inc, U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, No. 1:21-cv-08704. For Everytown: Marcella Ballard and Maria Sinatra of Venable For all of the defendants: Daniel Schmutter of Hartman & Winnicki For Defcad alone: Elliott Stein of Stevens & Lee Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Blake Brittain reports on intellectual property law, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Reach him at blake.brittain@thomsonreuters.com