OSLO, March 1 (Reuters) - Environmental campaigner Greta Thunberg was twice detained during a demonstration in favour of Indigenous rights in Oslo on Wednesday, with police removing her and other activists from the finance ministry and later the environment ministry. Thunberg had on Monday joined protesters demanding the removal of 151 wind turbines from reindeer pastures used by Sami herders in central Norway. They say a transition to green energy should not come at the expense of Indigenous rights. The demonstrators have in recent days blocked access to some government buildings, putting the centre-left minority government on a crisis footing and prompting Energy Minister Terje Aasland to call off an official visit to Britain. Norway's supreme court ruled in 2021 that the turbines, erected on two wind farms at Fosen and part of Europe's largest onshore wind power complex, violated Sami rights under international conventions, but they remain in operation more than 16 months later. Thunberg, holding a red, blue, yellow and green Sami flag, was lifted and carried away by police officers from the finance ministry while hundreds of demonstrators chanted slogans. "We want to make it very clear that it is the Norwegian state that is committing the real crime here, for violating human rights," she told Reuters minutes before she was removed. Thunberg and other demonstrators later blocked the entrance to the climate and environment ministry and were again removed by police. Thunberg, for many a global standard-bearer of the campaign to end the world's reliance on carbon-based energy, was released along with other activists who had also been detained. Reindeer herders say the sight and sound of the giant wind power machinery frighten their animals and disrupt age-old traditions. The energy ministry has said the turbines present a legal quandary despite the supreme court ruling and is hoping to find a compromise, but that it could take another year to make a new decision in the Fosen case. Activists on Tuesday said they had raised close to $100,000 in recent days to help individual demonstrators pay police fines. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Oversees news coverage from Norway for Reuters and loves flying to Svalbard in the Arctic, oil platforms in the North Sea, and guessing who is going to win the Nobel Peace Prize. Born in France and with Reuters since 2010, she has worked for The Guardian, Agence France-Presse and Al Jazeera English, among others, and speaks four languages.