HONG KONG, March 9 (Reuters Breakingviews) - European financial centres are rolling out the red carpet for Chinese companies. Easier rules have made Switzerland a popular destination for mainland firms selling shares abroad. With battery giant Contemporary Amperex Technology (CATL) (300750.SZ) mulling a $5 billion offering in Zurich, other bourses will be eager to join in. The SIX Swiss Exchange is an unlikely place for businesses in the People's Republic to tap overseas capital. Its free-float market capitalisation of $1.9 trillion is just a tenth of the New York Stock Exchange, January data from the World Federation of Exchanges show. Yet as tensions between Washington and Beijing rise and Chinese companies in New York face the threat of delisting, traditionally neutral Zurich has become an attractive alternative. Loose listing requirements are a factor. Switzerland recognises Chinese accounting standards and auditing supervision. That removes the risk that overseas regulators will demand access to mainland companies’ books - the source of a lengthy spat between the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Beijing. Chinese issuers are also exempt from certain Swiss corporate governance disclosure rules. For companies listed in Shanghai or Shenzhen, offering global depositary receipts (GDRs) in Switzerland is faster than raising capital at home. Better still, the proceeds are offshore. Since a scheme to link Swiss and Chinese exchanges went live last year, 10 mainland firms have raised a combined $4.6 billion by selling GDRs in Zurich, according to Dealogic. At least 30 more have announced similar plans, IFR reported in February. Those include $48 billion solar panel specialist Longi Green Energy Technology (601012.SS) and Muyuan Foods (002714.SZ), China's top pig breeder. The planned offering by CATL, the world's biggest lithium-ion battery maker, could be the largest Chinese GDR by far, per Reuters. Other financial hubs are catching up. Deutsche Börse (DB1Gn.DE), which operates Frankfurt’s stock exchange, is technically ready to launch the China-Germany Stock Connect, board representative Niels Tomm said in November. Chinese machinery maker Sany Heavy Industry (600031.SS) might raise $1 billion on the German exchange according to IFR. Yet the long-term benefits of luring secondary Chinese listings are hazy. The GDRs tend to barely trade as original buyers, usually offshore Chinese funds lured by discounted prices, convert the shares back into mainland Chinese stock after a typical 120-day lock-up. Zurich-listed GDRs like Gotion High-Tech (002074.SZ) and Ningbo Shanshan (600884.SS) have seen no turnover since the lock-up ended, Refinitiv data show. A scheme linking the Shanghai and London bourses suffered from similar problems. Even if European investors develop an appetite for locally listed Chinese shares, accounting and corporate governance rules in the People’s Republic leave them with little recourse if something goes wrong. The red carpet may roll downhill. Follow @mak_robyn on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own. Refiles to move graphic placement.) CONTEXT NEWS China's Contemporary Amperex Technology (CATL) is planning to raise at least $5 billion by listing global depositary receipts in Switzerland as early as May, Reuters reported on Feb. 1, citing two sources with direct knowledge of the matter. The size of the deal could increase to $8 billion. The company, the world’s largest battery maker, plans to use the proceeds to fund its European expansion plans, especially the development of a plant in Hungary, one of the sources said. (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Robyn Mak joined Reuters Breakingviews in 2013. Previously, she was a Research Associate for the Global Policy Programs at the Asia Society in New York where she focused on US-Iran relations, US-Myanmar relations and sustainability issues in Asia. She has also worked as a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington DC and interned at several consulting firms, including the Albright Stonebridge Group. She holds a masters degree in international economics and international relations from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and is a magna cum laude graduate of New York University.