(Reuters) - A federal judge in Texas on Friday refused to transfer a challenge to a new Biden administration immigration policy to a different court, rejecting the administration's claim that the Republican-led states that sued had engaged in "judge shopping" that would erode public faith in the courts. U.S. District Judge Drew Tipton in Victoria, Texas, who has already blocked two other immigration policies adopted under Democratic President Joe Biden, said the administration's claim was undermined by its own statements that he could be fair and impartial. Tipton, an appointee of Republican former President Donald Trump, was the only judge in Victoria when the lawsuit was filed. The administration last month said the lawsuit by Texas and 20 other states had no connection to Victoria and should be sent to a court in Washington, D.C., or Austin, the capital of Texas. "The Court does not believe it is appropriate to transfer a case that is in the proper venue due to a speculative public perception of bias that conflicts with the federal defendants’ own statements," Tipton wrote. The U.S. Department of Justice did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Nor did the office of Republican Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton and America First Legal, a conservative group formed by Trump-era White House aide Stephen Miller that is involved in the lawsuit. The case is one of at least three in which the Biden administration has accused Paxton's office and other Republican attorney generals of purposefully filing in single-judge courts in Texas to raise their chances of winning. The other cases, involving a rule allowing socially conscious investing and challenges to a $1.7 trillion government spending bill, have been assigned to Trump appointees in the Texas cities of Amarillo and Lubbock. The lawsuit before Tipton seeks to shut down a new Biden administration program allowing up to 360,000 people from Cuba, Haiti, Venezuela and Nicaragua to enter the U.S. each year. The states claim the program violates stringent criteria established by federal immigration law for allowing individuals into the United States who would otherwise not be eligible for entry, known as paroling. The case is Texas v. U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. District Court the Southern District of Texas, No. 6:23-cv-00007. For the states: Texas Deputy Attorney General Aaron Reitz; Gene Hamilton of America First Legal Foundation For DHS: Erez Reuveni of the U.S. Department of Justice Read more: U.S. would accept up to 30,000 migrants a month in expanded program -sources Biden policy allowing migrants to enter U.S. challenged by states Biden administration accuses Texas of 'judge shopping' spending law case Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Dan Wiessner (@danwiessner) reports on labor and employment and immigration law, including litigation and policy making. He can be reached at daniel.wiessner@thomsonreuters.com.