(Reuters) - Contaminated water at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina has become one of the biggest draws for law firm and lead generator advertising of the last decade, according to research firm X Ante. The data is more striking considering that the claims process for Camp Lejeune was just created in August, when President Joe Biden signed the PACT Act, a veterans’ healthcare and benefits bill that removed much of the government’s defenses to claims the water at Camp Lejeune was tainted with chemicals that cause cancer, miscarriages and other health problems. Before then, the government relied on a 2016 court opinion to deny liability. So far, X Ante estimates more than $116 million has been spent on ads for the claims – a number only surpassed by ads for claims over asbestos, weedkiller Roundup and blood thinner pill Xarelto. X Ante tracks mass tort advertising on TV, radio and online. For television ads, it uses data from ad intelligence company Vivvix and its Campaign Media Analysis Group. Asbestos and mesothelioma have long been the most frequent subject of mass tort advertising, according to X Ante founder and president Rustin Silverstein. Over the last 10 years, asbestos ad spending has reached nearly $580 million, hundreds of millions more than has been spent on any other subject, X Ante data shows. Last year, spending on Camp Lejeune advertising totaled more than $111 million, more than double what was spent on asbestos in the same time frame, according to the data. The Camp Lejeune ads pushed the total amount spent on mass tort ads to nearly $220 million last year, according to X Ante’s data. That’s nearly double what was spent in 2021, where the biggest ad topic was herbicide paraquat. But it is less than was spent in 2020 and 2019, when products like Zantac and Roundup dominated the airwaves, according to X Ante. After the PACT Act took effect, a two-year period began for Camp Lejeune claims to be filed administratively with the Office of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy’s Tort Claims Unit in Norfolk, Virginia, which can decide whether to accept liability and offer compensation. Lawsuits can also be brought in federal court. The Navy did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the advertising. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.