LONDON, March 9 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Vincent Bolloré’s exit from Vivendi’s (VIV.PA) board allows son and Chairman Yannick to take another step out of his father's big shadow. The French tycoon’s departure coincided with the announcement on Thursday that the 10 billion euros French media conglomerate would take a 1.3 billion euros writedown on its 24% stake in Telecom Italia (TLIT.MI), lowering the investment's carrying value to where the Italian telecom group is currently trading. Vivendi CEO Arnaud de Puyfontaine reiterated his company’s official line that offers from private equity firm KKR (KKR.N) and state investor Cassa Depositi e Prestiti to acquire Telecom Italia’s fixed-line network were too low. But the markdown gives Yannick more latitude to end his father’s ill-fated Italian foray while continuing to play hardball to raise the price tag. Vivendi also took a 300 million euros goodwill impairment on its book division Editis, which it has pledged to sell to win EU antitrust approval for the acquisition of Lagardère Publishing - the world’s third-largest publisher. Here again, the move will give Bolloré junior more freedom to consider offers from potential buyers, which the European Commission will have to approve. At 70, the elder Bolloré, who remains in charge of the family holding that owns a 30% stake in Vivendi, is gradually implementing his succession plan. At 9.8 euros, Vivendi’s stock fails to capture the value of its various investments and trades below an analysts’ target of between 12 to 15 euros. Yannick’s real mettle will be judged on what he does to narrow such stubborn conglomerate discount. (By Pierre Briancon) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: L&G looks overseas to fight Brexit discount  read more  Sea sails past growth vs. profitability debate  read more  New Carlsberg CEO’s task: stay ahead of Heineken  read more  Kakao can end K-pop saga with near-$1 bln mic drop  read more  US blacklisting is no match for TikTok virality  read more  (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.