LONDON, March 7 (Reuters Breakingviews) - SAP (SAPG.DE) may be about to get rid of Qualtrics International (XM.O) little more than four years after deciding to buy it. The $150 billion German software giant hasn’t exactly taken a bath on the maker of online surveys for corporate customers, but nor has it created much value for shareholders. U.S.-listed Qualtrics, in which SAP owns a 71% stake, said on Monday that buyout group Silver Lake had offered to buy it for $18.15 per share in cash, implying an equity value of $12.4 billion. For SAP Chief Executive Christian Klein, an exit would cap a relatively pointless M&A roundtrip. His predecessor agreed to buy Qualtrics for $8 billion in cash in 2018, just days before the target was supposed to make its public-market debut. After stripping out net cash, adding assumed liabilities and converting the sums to SAP’s native currency, that amounted to a 6.4 billion euro total outlay when the deal closed in 2019, according to UBS analysts. Two years later Klein pocketed over 1.8 billion euros in Qualtrics’ listing, according to the same broker, while Silver Lake’s offer might get him another 7.2 billion euros. Add it all up and the implied internal rate of return is 10%, according to Breakingviews calculations, a reasonable but hardly world-beating return. That probably flatters the German parent, since it doesn’t account for all the cash that Qualtrics has burnt during its ownership. The exercise shows the danger of a large legacy company trying to integrate a younger and faster-growing one. In theory, SAP could have supercharged the groups’ combined revenue by offering its software to Qualtrics’ customers and vice versa. But the fact that Klein is now planning to offload the group while aiming to maintain a corporate partnership implies that SAP never needed to own the smaller company to do this. Silver Lake may have better luck. First, the price seems reasonable. The buyout firm’s offer values Qualtrics at 8 times last year’s sales, according to UBS analysts, which is in line with the median multiple from a dozen recent software buyouts. Second, analysts reckon Qualtrics is about to finally start generating prodigious free cash flows – to the tune of roughly $200 million next year, using Visible Alpha data. Silver Lake, a specialist in tech buyouts, is well-placed to keep that growing. One potential hiccup is that Qualtrics’ fairly paltry EBITDA limits how much debt Silver Lake can use. Even if it manages to fund the purchase with borrowings equivalent to 7 times next year’s projected $353 million of EBITDA, based on Visible Alpha data, the $2.5 billion total borrowings would only cover a fifth of the total purchase price, implying a giant $9 billion equity cheque. Still, buyout barons are getting creative with their deal financing amid tight debt markets. Silver Lake may yet have a better experience than SAP. Follow @karenkkwok on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) CONTEXT NEWS Online-survey software maker Qualtrics International on March 6 said it had received a $12.4 billion offer from private equity firm Silver Lake Management and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board. The offer values Qualtrics at $18.15 per share, a premium of nearly 62% to the stock’s closing price on Jan. 25, the day before SAP announced its intention to sell its controlling stake in Qualtrics. SAP paid $8 billion in cash for Qualtrics in 2018, and subsequently offloaded a minority stake through an initial public offering in 2021. (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.