(Reuters) - Haynes and Boone said Tuesday it has gained 19 attorneys from a small Virginia-based law firm, as the legal industry kicks off the year with several combinations. The lawyers joining Dallas-founded Haynes and Boone come from Smith Pachter McWhorter, a litigation firm that does government contracts, construction and white-collar defense and investigations work. The move brings Haynes and Boone to about 650 total lawyers, said Taylor Wilson, the firm's managing partner. He said all of Smith Pachter McWhorter's active lawyers will join the firm. Wilson said the firm sees the addition as an opportunity to grow its presence in the Washington, D.C., area and strengthen the government contracts practice. The firm will gain a new office in Northern Virginia, as the Smith Pachter McWhorter lawyers continue working out of their current location in Tysons, the firm said. Large and midsize firm combinations are gaining steam in 2023, with several announced since the start of the year. The total number of U.S. firm mergers increased in 2022 after a pandemic-era slowdown. Last week, law firms Smith, Gambrell & Russell and Freeborn & Peters said that they will merge. Other planned deals include Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe and Buckley; Maynard Cooper & Gale and Nexsen Pruet; Bricker & Eckler Graydon Head & Ritchey, and Holland & Knight and Waller Lansden Dortch & Davis. Hogan Lovells and Shearman & Sterling acknowledged reports in late December but did not confirm nor deny they were in early-stage talks to merge. Read more: Atlanta, Chicago law firms merge as legal industry tie-ups gain steam Law firms Orrick and Buckley to merge, creating 1,150 lawyer firm Hogan Lovells, Shearman & Sterling respond to reports of merger talks Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Sara Merken reports on privacy and data security, as well as the business of law, including legal innovation and key players in the legal services industry. Reach her at sara.merken@thomsonreuters.com