Jan 20 (Reuters) - The United States and its allies have been ramping up supplies of armoured vehicles being sent to Ukraine amid their concerns about a Russian spring offensive. Below is a list of some of the vehicles governments have sent or have committed to send to Ukraine, based on sources such as Reuters reports and government websites. The amount of detail published by countries about their support varies. THE UNITED STATES: Bradley Fighting Vehicle: a tracked, armoured vehicle with a turret-mounted 25-mm gun that can carry up to seven soldiers in addition to three crew. The United States said in January it would send 109. M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS): a wheeled vehicle that can launch multiple rockets. Washington committed to sending 38. M109A6 Paladin self-propelled howitzer: a tracked, armoured vehicle with a 155 mm gun. Washington committed to send 18. Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicle: a wheeled troop carrying vehicle with a V-shaped hull to disperse the impact of bomb blasts. Washington committed to send 200. Stryker armoured personnel carrier: a wheeled armoured vehicle that can be configured to handle anything from carrying infantry to medical evacuations. Washington committed to send 90. M113 armoured personnel carrier: a tracked vehicle that can be fitted with a range of weapons, often a heavy machine gun. Washington committed to send 300. M1117 armoured security vehicle: a wheeled vehicle with a mine-resistant hull. Washington committed to send 250. High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle (HMMWV): Better known as the Humvee), it is a lightweight, four-wheel drive vehicle that is a staple of the U.S. Army. Washington committed to send more than 1,300. In addition, the United States has committed to send a large range of other vehicles used to tow weapons, deliver ammunition supplies and act in command and support roles. The U.S. package of support so far has also included delivering 45 refurbished T-72Bs, a Soviet-era tank. Panzerhaubitze 2000 self-propelled howitzer: a tracked armoured vehicle with 155 mm gun. Berlin committed to send 14 in a joint project with the Netherlands. Zuzana 2 self-propelled howitzer: a wheeled vehicle with a 155 mm gun. Berlin committed to send 16 in a joint project with Denmark and Norway. RCH 155 self-propelled howitzer: a wheeled vehicle with a 155 mm gun. Berlin committed to send 18. Marder Infantry Fighting Vehicle: a tracked armoured personnel carrier with a 20 mm autocannon and MILAN anti-tank missile launchers. Berlin said in January it wanted to send 40 by the end of March. Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) Dingo: a heavily armoured wheeled infantry vehicle. Berlin committed to send 50. M113 armoured personnel carrier: Berlin is sending 54. In addition, Germany has committed to send a range of transporter trucks, armoured recovery and medical vehicles and other infantry support vehicles. Challenger 2 battle tank: a tracked tank with a 120 mm rifled gun. London said it would send a squadron, or 14 tanks. AS90 self-propelled 155mm gun: a tracked artillery weapon. London has said it will supply a battery of eight guns initially. Bulldog FV432 armoured personnel carrier: a tracked vehicle which can be configured to carry infantry, act an ambulance or a range of other uses. Britain has not specified a number. In addition, the defence minister said in January that Britain's latest package would include "hundreds more armoured and protected vehicles will also be sent including Bulldog." AMX 10-RC: an armoured combat vehicle with a similar profile to a tank but with wheels rather than tracks and often described as a tank destroyer. Paris said in January would send an unspecified number in two months. Caesar self-propelled howitzer: a wheeled vehicle with a 155 mm gun. Paris has sent 18 and said last year it could send more. Leopard 2 battle tank: a German-built battle tank that is one of the most widely used in the West. Warsaw has said it is ready to send 14 tanks and said it could send them even without Berlin's re-export approval. T-72 battle tank: a Soviet-era battle tank that is still in use by armies in Eastern Europe that were in the Soviet sphere of influence and other countries around the world. Polish media has reported that Warsaw has sent more than 200 to Ukraine. In addition, Poland has also sent 42 infantry fighting vehicles. BVP-1 armoured infantry fighting vehicle: a light combat amphibious tracked vehicle equipped with a 73 mm cannon. Slovakia has sent 30. Archer Artillery System: a wheeled, self-propelled gun. The number Stockholm is committed to sending is not clear. Combat Vehicle 90, or Type 90: a track infantry fighting vehicle fitted with a 40 mm automatic cannon. Stockholm committed to send 50. Caesar self-propelled howitzer: Copenhagen committed to send 19. Senator Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC): a wheeled vehicle. Canada committed to send 200. Defence Minister Kajsa Ollongren said in January she was confident a solution would be found for supplying modern battle tanks to Ukraine but said the Netherlands, which leases Leopard 2 tanks from Germany, would need Berlin's green light before deciding whether to contribute. Sources: Reuters reports; U.S. Department of Defense website; U.S. Department of State website; German federal government website; British government website; Canadian government website Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.