Feb 3 (Reuters) - A group of U.S. and European medical device and pharmaceutical companies on Thursday failed to convince a U.S. appeals court to reconsider its ruling last year that allowed a lawsuit to move forward that claimed they helped to fund terrorism in Iraq that killed or injured American service members. In a brief order, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit declined to take up petitions from Pfizer Inc and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd that challenged what they and the other defendants assailed as a "sweeping" panel decision letting the lawsuit to proceed in Washington, D.C., federal court. The panel ruling in 2022 overturned a federal trial judge who had dismissed the lawsuit in 2020. American service members and their families accused 21 defendants from five corporate families — AstraZeneca Plc, Pfizer, GE Healthcare USA Holding, Johnson & Johnson and Roche — of making corrupt payments to militia group Jaysh al-Mahdi in order to secure lucrative contracts with Iraq's health ministry. The plaintiffs contend Jaysh al-Mahdi, sponsored by the U.S.-designated foreign terrorist organization Hezbollah, controlled the ministry. The defendants said in a joint defense statement on Thursday they would weigh further legal options. The statement said they "vigorously dispute the plaintiffs' allegations in this case, and are not responsible in any way for the tragic events that were caused and carried out by Iraqi militia groups." The two lead attorneys on the defendants' joint petitions — Lisa Blatt of Williams & Connolly and Beth Brinkmann of Covington & Burling — on Friday did not immediately respond to messages seeking comment. Joshua Branson of Kellogg, Hansen, Todd, Figel & Frederick, who argued for the plaintiffs in the D.C. Circuit, on Friday said in a statement: "We're gratified that the court unanimously denied both petitions, and we look forward to discovery." The plaintiffs' 588-page complaint was filed on behalf of hundreds of victims of Americans who were harmed in Iraq between 2005 and 2011. "The terrorist-finance mechanism was straightforward: the terrorists openly controlled the Iraqi ministry in charge of importing medical goods, and defendants — all of which are large Western medical-supply companies — obtained lucrative contracts from that ministry by making corrupt payments to the terrorists who ran it," the plaintiffs' attorneys said. The defendants have argued that the D.C. Circuit's ruling, if left in place, will "risk cutting off critical aid amidst a pandemic and spiraling humanitarian crises." Branson told the court the relevant U.S. law poses a high bar and that sending humanitarian aid into an area where terrorists are active isn't "going to be enough to create liability." The case is Atchley v. Astrazeneca UK Ltd et al, U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, No. 20-7077. For plaintiffs: Joshua Branson of Kellogg, Hansen, Todd, Figel & Frederick For Pfizer: Lisa Blatt of Williams & Connolly For F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd: Beth Brinkmann of Covington & Burling Read more: HSBC not liable for al-Qaeda suicide attack at CIA base -US appeals court Pharma companies contest D.C. Circuit's revival of terror claims U.S. court revives lawsuit against Pfizer, others on Iraq terrorism funding claims Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.