(Reuters) - Tesla Inc has hired Brandon Ehrhart from Dish Network Inc as its new legal chief, as the electric carmaker led by Elon Musk continues to shake up its legal department ranks and cycle through senior lawyers. Ehrhart spent most of his career at Dish and was most recently general counsel for its Dish Wireless unit. Tesla said on Twitter on Friday that he had joined the company as general counsel, a position that has been empty or filled on an acting basis since 2019. Tesla, Ehrhart and Dish did not immediately respond to requests for comment Friday. Ehrhart's LinkedIn account shows that he joined Austin, Texas-based Tesla last month after about two decades at Dish, where he also was executive vice president and corporate secretary. Tesla also said on Twitter that Dinna Eskin would "continue in a leadership role in Tesla Legal, as we build a world class team." Eskin's LinkedIn account describes her as senior director of legal at Tesla. She took on a larger role at the company after David Searle, who led the legal department, left the position, Bloomberg News reported last year. Tesla hired other lawyers last year amid ongoing legal department turnover, including Michael Munro as associate general counsel for global compliance and Derek Windham as deputy general counsel for corporate and securities. Musk tweeted in May that Tesla wanted to hire lawyers who are "hardcore streetfighters," not "white-shoe lawyers... who thrive on corruption." He has also lashed out at individual law firms and at senior former in-house lawyers at Twitter Inc, which he acquired for $44 billion in the fall. Musk's rocky relationship with lawyers has continued since he became Twitter's CEO. He fired Twitter's legal affairs and policy chief Vijaya Gadde in October. Other top lawyers, including deputy general counsel James Baker, have also been fired or resigned. Damien Kieran, who resigned as Twitter's chief privacy officer, vice president and deputy general counsel in November, on Monday joined photo sharing app-maker BeReal as its top lawyer. Gadde, Baker, and former head of trust and safety Yoel Roth appeared before the U.S. House Oversight Committee on Wednesday to answer questions about Twitter's decision to limit the reach of a New York Post article on President Joe Biden’s son Hunter before the 2020 election. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Sara Merken reports on privacy and data security, as well as the business of law, including legal innovation and key players in the legal services industry. Reach her at sara.merken@thomsonreuters.com