LONDON, Feb 10 (Reuters Breakingviews) - A wardrobe clear-out makes room for new and exciting things. Adidas’s (ADSGn.DE) new Chief Executive Bjorn Gulden on Thursday revealed the cost of the company’s decision to terminate its sneaker contract with the artist formerly known as Kanye West. There are two scenarios. If the company fails to flog the Yeezy trainers he designed, revenue would fall by around 1.2 billion euros this year, and a 500 million euro cut in operating profit would allow the company to break even. But if Adidas decides to write off the Yeezy inventory altogether, it will lose another 500 million euros. In the worst scenario, with one-off costs in 2023 of up to 200 million euros, the $27 billion sportswear maker expects to report a 700 million euro operating loss this year. The 11% share price slump suggests this bad news took investors by surprise. The company had already announced that ending its partnership with the musician would shrink its net income by 250 million euros in 2022. The termination of the contract also implied that some revenue would be lost in 2023. Shareholders however seem surprised that Adidas might not try to repurpose the trainers, instead of writing off the inventory. Yeezy is not the only problem for Adidas. The sportswear maker was hit by a slowdown in China last year after prolonged lockdowns. Investors may fear that inflation in Europe and the United States will hit consumer spending even if recession concerns are subsiding. By revealing all the pain at once, Gulden has a chance to surprise on the upside. (By Aimee Donnellan) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter (The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are their own.) Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Chinese firms face embarrassment of listing riches  read more  Worker shortage gives U.S. reason to robotize  read more  Discovery flips script on Warner Bros deal logic  read more  Chegg gets schooled in AI downside  read more  Fertiliser boom reveals food security price power  read more  Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.