LONDON, Feb 3 (Reuters Breakingviews) - Sanofi (SASY.PA) is battling multiple ailments. The $115 billion French pharma group on Friday forecast “low single digit” growth in earnings per share for 2023, disappointing analysts. Chief Executive Paul Hudson’s existing medicines, including his vaccines arm, are misfiring. He failed to flog enough flu jabs last year, leading to earnings 12% below consensus. Meanwhile, his multiple sclerosis drug Aubagio, which delivered 2 billion euros in sales last year, will face competition from generics rivals in 2023. Sanofi has wider issues, though. Its pipeline of drugs, essential to replace lost revenue from old remedies as they come off patent, is failing to impress. Last August, it revealed disappointing results from a trial of a once-promising breast cancer drug candidate. It’s now also halted a trial for tolebrutinib in patients with moderate to severe myasthenia gravis. Hence it’s more reliant on the star asthma and eczema drug Dupixent, which contributed nearly a fifth of Sanofi’s 43 billion euros of sales in 2022. Elsewhere, Sanofi is facing legal claims that heartburn drug Zantac caused cancer. Last August, $36 billion was wiped off Sanofi, GSK (GSK.L) and spinoff Haleon (HLN.L) shares on U.S. litigation fears. Although a recent favourable legal outcome reduces that risk, Sanofi has yet to recover to its pre-August share price. It currently trades on 10 times its forecast 2023 earnings, while Novartis (NOVN.S) trades on 13 times. With little to inspire investors in its pipeline, this gap is likely to persist. (By Aimee Donnellan) Follow @Breakingviews on Twitter Capital Calls - More concise insights on global finance: Britain kicks crypto when it’s down  read more  Chelsea shrugs off cost-of-living crisis  read more  Vodafone travails require more than caretaker CEO  read more  McDonald’s finds inflationary happy place  read more  New Spotify release gives bull-market vibes  read more  Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.