(Reuters) - Former Twitter Inc executives turned to prominent white-collar lawyers ahead of their grilling on Wednesday by a U.S. House of Representatives committee, in a preview of Republican probes into the government's alleged social media interference and other politically charged issues. Twitter’s former chief legal officer Vijaya Gadde, former deputy general counsel James Baker and former head of trust and safety Yoel Roth appeared before the U.S. House Oversight Committee to answer questions about the company’s decision to limit the reach of a New York Post article on President Joe Biden’s son Hunter before the 2020 election. Baker was represented by David Kelley, a leader of the white-collar practice at law firm Dechert and former interim head of the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s Office. Michael Borden and Dave Anderson of Sidley Austin represented Gadde, while Mark Lytle at Nixon Peabody advised Roth, according to people familiar with the matter. Former Twitter employee Anika Collier Navaroli, who was interviewed by the U.S. House committee probing the Jan. 6, 2021 Capitol riot, joined the panel as a Democratic witness. The former executives had no comment ahead of the hearing. The hearing showed how investigations by House Republicans, who took control of the chamber last month, are already driving work for law firms with experience in congressional investigations and white-collar enforcement. Kelley, Anderson and Lytle supervised significant white-collar investigations as federal prosecutors. Borden, who leads Sidley’s lobbying and congressional investigations practice, is a former lawyer for the House Financial Services Committee. House Republicans have vowed to investigate a range of Biden administration policies along with Hunter Biden’s foreign business dealings. Companies have been bracing for Republican-led probes touching on social media content-moderation policies, sustainable investing practices and corporate connections to China. Gadde, Baker and Roth were all senior executives at Twitter when the company decided to temporarily prevent users from posting a 2020 New York Post article on Hunter Biden’s business dealings in Ukraine based on information purportedly found on his personal laptop. The former executives said during the hearing Wednesday that blocking the story was an error that they reversed within 24 hours. Gadde said it appeared at the time that the article may have been based on hacked materials. The company’s decision has come under renewed scrutiny from congressional Republicans and Twitter CEO Elon Musk, who has criticized decisions by prior company management as infringing on free speech rights. Republicans have claimed a conspiracy to suppress information damaging to Biden’s candidacy ahead of the election. Democrats on the committee dismissed it as a trivial and outdated Republican fixation. Musk said he fired Gadde and Baker after he took control of Twitter in October. Roth resigned from the company. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.