LONDON - The former executive chairman of the British Automobile Association, who was sacked after attacking a colleague, lost a negligence lawsuit against a British law firm in a London court on Friday. Judge Timothy Fancourt said in a ruling that Rosenblatt Solicitors negligently failed to advise Robert Mackenzie, executive chairman of roadside recovery company AA until 2017, that his case against his former employer was weak and there was a chance it would be thrown out of court. However, even though the firm admitted to having been negligent with respect to the advice it gave Mackenzie, its actions did not cause him any loss because he would have brought his claims regardless. Mackenzie had sued AA for wrongful dismissal, alleging that his firing was part of a conspiracy by directors to remove him from his post, and then sued British law firm Rosenblatt over how it handled his case. Mackenzie's case against AA – which was taken over by another law firm – was thrown out in 2021. His lawyer Daniel Jennings said in a statement that the court’s judgment was "very harsh". "We anticipate an appeal being lodged shortly," he said. "All that matters in life is winning and we won," Rosenblatt Solicitors' founder Ian Rosenblatt said in a statement. Mackenzie was sacked in 2017 after an incident with a colleague at a staff "away day". His lawyers described it as an "altercation" in court filings, though Rosenblatt said CCTV footage showed him "repeatedly punching and slapping" the colleague. The incident in 2017 "precipitated a mental health crisis", the court's judgment said, from which Mackenzie "has still not fully recovered". Rosenblatt, who founded Rosenblatt Solicitors in 1989, gave evidence at London’s High Court in November that he felt "totally misled" when he saw the footage of the "altercation". He said he was initially told the incident was "a fracas in a bar", before AA’s lawyers showed him CCTV footage of the assault, which shocked him. The case is Mackenzie v Rosenblatt Solicitors, High Court in London, No. BL-2020-002259. For Mackenzie: Hugh Jackson and Maxwell Myers of Selborne Chambers, and Shakespeare Martineau For Rosenblatt: Nicholas Bacon KC of 4 New Square, and Browne Jacobson Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.