(Reuters) - U.S. law firm Fox Rothschild said Monday that Todd Rodriguez, a longterm leader of the firm's healthcare group, will take over as firmwide managing partner effective April 1. Rodriguez succeeds Mark Morris, a real estate lawyer who has served as the Philadelphia-founded firm's managing partner since 2017. Morris will become chair, replacing current chair Mark Silow. Rodriguez, who has served as co-chair of the firm's healthcare department since 2008, said Silow and Morris have built a "very healthy and robust firm" with a diversity of people and practice areas, and he views his charge as "continuing that legacy." The new leaders step into the roles for three-year terms. Fox had about 200 lawyers located regionally when Silow became managing partner in 2005 and has since grown to 1,000 lawyers in 29 offices nationally, the firm said. The firm has expanded over the years in part through a series of mergers with much smaller law firms in different markets. It has also opened new offices in recent years with hires and attorney relocations, including most recently in Boston, Oklahoma City and Kansas City, Missouri. Rodriguez declined to share specific details about the firm's 2022 financial results. The firm generated $650 million gross revenue in 2021, according to figures reported by The American Lawyer. He did say that like many of Fox's peer law firms, the firm is "coming off of two very successful years financially [2020 and 2021], and I recognize that repeating that level of success will be challenging." He added that Fox is "uniquely situated to meet that challenge" due to its diversity of client offerings. Revenues and profits at many large U.S. law firms hit new heights in 2021, due in part to a surge in corporate deal work. Demand for legal services dropped as the market began to cool in 2022. Rodriguez said that while he does not anticipate deals to maintain their "frenetic pace" from recent prior years, transactional work is continuing. Other areas, like regulatory practices and labor and employment, will likely stay busy this year, he said. Read more: Fox Rothschild converts remote Boston presence into physical office Fox Rothschild absorbs another Atlanta boutique after Trump call led to departures Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Sara Merken reports on privacy and data security, as well as the business of law, including legal innovation and key players in the legal services industry. Reach her at sara.merken@thomsonreuters.com