(Reuters) - General Electric Co must double its patent royalty payments to Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy A/S for wind turbines it uses in a renewable energy project off the New Jersey coast, a Boston federal judge said Thursday. U.S. District Judge William Young ordered GE to pay $60,000 for each megawatt of capacity of its infringing turbines to Siemens Gamesa, doubling a jury's earlier award. He also criticized the companies' "global struggle for dominance" in the wind-turbine industry and their refusal to cross-license their technologies and "forge ahead with production in the global public interest." "This struggle does nothing to advance the public interest of the people of the United States or any other nation," Young wrote. "Indeed, it inhibits efforts to combat climate change worldwide." A GE Renewable Energy spokesperson said the ruling "does not follow the jury's verdict or account for today's economic realities," but the New Jersey project will move forward. Representatives for Siemens Gamesa did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the decision. Siemens Gamesa sued GE for patent infringement in Massachusetts in 2020 over GE's Haliade-X turbines. Young ruled in September that Siemens Gamesa's technology was a "key element" of the turbines' functionality, enabling them to have larger motors and lowering the chances that they fail. Young barred GE from making and selling the turbines in the United States but allowed it to continue using them in existing projects off the coasts of Massachusetts and New Jersey with royalty payments. A jury had awarded Siemens Gamesa a royalty rate of $30,000 per megawatt. Siemens Gamesa asked the court to triple the rate for the New Jersey project to $90,000 for total damages of $109.3 million, arguing GE's economic position had improved because the court had allowed the projects to continue. Young agreed that the court was "conferring on GE, a patent infringer, a significant if incalculable economic advantage," and said a rate of $60,000 per megawatt was fair to compensate Siemens Gamesa. He rejected GE's arguments that an increased award would threaten the project's viability. The case is Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy A/S v. General Electric Co, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, No. 1:21-cv-10216. For Siemens Gamesa: Robert Thielhelm, Daniel Goettle and Cy Walker of Baker & Hostetler; Cory Bell of Finnegan Henderson Farabow Garrett & Dunner For GE: Louis Tompros, Monica Grewal and Jason Liss of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr (NOTE: This story has been updated with comment from GE.) Read more: Siemens Gamesa wins U.S. ban on GE wind turbines in patent dispute Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Blake Brittain reports on intellectual property law, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Reach him at blake.brittain@thomsonreuters.com