LONDON, Feb 2 (Reuters Breakingviews) - In many ways, Christian Sewing has successfully rejuvenated Deutsche Bank (DBKGn.DE). Counterparties no longer fret about the German lender’s solvency, and he’s axed 3 billion euros of costs since starting as chief executive in 2018. The centrepiece of Sewing’s turnaround, however, was an 8% return on tangible equity (ROTE) target for 2022, which he’s effectively missed. That leaves him with a depressingly familiar task. Admittedly, Deutsche’s full-year results on Thursday implied otherwise. Using the reported numbers, the Frankfurt-based group clocked up a 9.4% ROTE, which measures the amount of earnings a bank generates relative to book value. Strip out a boost related to a deferred tax asset, though, and that falls to 6.7% - well short of his 8% target. Zoom in on the bits of Deutsche that Sewing wants to keep for the long haul, known as the core bank, and the ROTE excluding the tax windfall is 8.5%, against a 9% goal. He deserves some credit for getting within spitting distance, which seemed unlikely just a few years ago when costs vastly exceeded revenue and some investors thought Deutsche needed fresh capital. The main question now is whether Sewing’s 2022 miss makes his 2025 ambitions even more farfetched. The bank is hoping to generate a ROTE of at least 10%, which would call for a valuation roughly in line with its 56 billion euros of tangible book value. Deutsche’s 24 billion euro market capitalisation is roughly two-fifths of that figure, implying investors expect Sewing to massively undershoot his goals. The average analyst estimate is for an 8% ROTE in 2025. Assuming that European Central Bank interest rates stay comfortably above zero, Deutsche’s corporate and retail banks should be able to keep up their recent strong performance. The key revenue variable is therefore investment banking, dominated by fixed income and currency trading, which boomed in 2021 and most of 2022. If activity there trails off, as it did in the fourth quarter, investors’ pessimism may prove justified. The other moving part, as ever with Deutsche, is cost. Sewing wants to cut another 2 billion euros in the coming years by closing retail branches, merging IT systems and decommissioning old ones. That has strong echoes of what he was doing for the past few years. In other words, Sewing’s turnaround has broadly worked, but it’s ended up looking a bit more like a 360-degree rotation. The bank is in significantly better shape, but is facing in roughly the same direction as when he started. Follow @liamwardproud on Twitter Deutsche Bank on Feb. 2 said it had generated 6.3 billion euros of revenue during the fourth quarter of 2022, up 7% year-on-year but lower than analysts’ forecasts of around 6.5 billion euros, according to consensus estimates compiled by the company. Pre-tax profit of 775 million euros was almost 400 million euros below consensus expectations, driven by a decline in investment-banking income. Shares in the German company were down 4.1% to 11.75 euros as of 0807 GMT on Feb. 2. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.