Feb 3 - A New York state judge on Friday said he will not sanction a law firm representing two women who have accused Apollo Global Management Inc co-founder Leon Black of rape. New York County Supreme Court Justice David Cohen denied the billionaire private equity investor's motion to sanction Guzel Ganieva and her lawyers at the Wigdor law firm. In the same ruling, Cohen denied a competing request by Ganieva for sanctions against Black. Ganieva, a Russian model, sued Black in 2021, claiming he abused her sexually and then lied and falsely accused her of extortion when she spoke out. Black has denied the allegations. Cohen said "neither side has, at this point, engaged in the type of extreme behavior required to impose sanctions." Jeanne Christensen, a partner at Wigdor who is representing Ganieva, said in a statement they are happy with Cohen's decision to deny Black's request. She said Black is waging a "campaign to retaliate against Ms. Ganieva for speaking up about the harm Black caused her and against our firm for representing Ms. Ganieva in this litigation." Susan Estrich, a lawyer for Black, said in a statement that Cohen's decision "doesn't change" that the "allegations in these lawsuits are complete works of fiction and riddled with falsehoods." In his December sanctions request, Black said "substantial" sanctions against Wigdor were warranted for filing "frivolous, unsubstantiated, and damaging accusations of sexual assault." Black and Wigdor are also seeking sanctions against each other in a separate lawsuit brought by Cheri Pierson, a Virginia resident who claimed Black raped her two decades ago in the late sex offender Jeffrey Epstein's Manhattan mansion. Black has also denied those allegations. Oral arguments over Black and Wigdor's sanctions motions are set for Feb. 23 before a different New York judge, Christensen said. The cases are Guzel Ganieva v. Leon Black, New York County Supreme Court, Index. No. 155262/2021 and Cheri Pierson v. Leon Black, et al., New York County Supreme Court, Index No. 952002/2022. For Guzel Ganieva and Cheri Pierson: Jeanne Christensen and Renan Varghese of Wigdor For Leon Black: Michael Carlinsky and Jennifer Barrett of Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan; Danya Perry of Perry Guha; and Susan Estrich of Estrich Goldin Read More: Leon Black seeks sanctions against law firm pressing rape claims Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters David Thomas reports on the business of law, including law firm strategy, hiring, mergers and litigation. He is based out of Chicago. He can be reached at d.thomas@thomsonreuters.com and on Twitter @DaveThomas5150.