(Reuters) - Meta Platforms Inc (META.O) and blockchain nonprofit Dfinity Foundation have resolved Dfinity's trademark lawsuit against Meta over its infinity-symbol logo, according to a joint filing in San Francisco federal court. Meta and Dfinity asked the court Monday to dismiss the case with prejudice, which means it cannot be revived. A Meta spokesperson said Tuesday that the company was "pleased with the outcome of the case." It said Dfinity had dropped the lawsuit after Meta "pointed out the defects" in its revised complaint. Representatives for Dfinity did not immediately respond to a request for comment Tuesday. Switzerland-based Dfinity's Internet Computer is an "infinite" public blockchain network designed to host smart contracts. Dfinity sued Meta last year, alleging the logo Meta adopted after changing its name from Facebook would cause confusion with Dfinity's infinity-symbol trademarks. Meta has described its logo as a "continuous loop" that resembles both the letter 'M' and an infinity sign to symbolize "infinite horizons in the metaverse." U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer dismissed Dfinity's original complaint in November but allowed the company to amend the lawsuit. Breyer said Meta's logo was unlikely to cause consumer confusion, citing differences in the logos' designs and the fact that Dfinity's customers are "tech-savvy developers." Dfinity filed an amended complaint in December. Meta is still facing trademark lawsuits from virtual-reality company MetaX and investment firm Metacapital over its name change. The case is Dfinity Foundation v. Meta Platforms Inc, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, No. 3:22-cv-02632. For Dfinity: Dennis Ellis, Keith Wesley and Katherine Murray of Ellis George Cipollone O'Brien Annaguey For Meta: Bobby Ghajar and Angela Dunning of Cooley Read more: Meta hit with trademark lawsuit over new infinity-symbol logo Meta defeats trademark lawsuit over infinity-symbol logo Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles. Thomson Reuters Blake Brittain reports on intellectual property law, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Reach him at blake.brittain@thomsonreuters.com