Feb 2 (Reuters) - Transatlantic law firm Hogan Lovells said Thursday it has added three partners to its global international arbitration practice in London and Dubai from rival firm King & Spalding. Emerson Holmes, who joined Hogan Lovells in London, was based out of King & Spalding’s Singapore office, where he advised construction and infrastructure clients across the United States, Asia-Pacific and Europe focusing on energy and transportation projects, according to his profile on Hogan Lovells’ website. Patrick McPherson and Randall Walker join Hogan Lovells' Dubai office. They focus on disputes arising in the infrastructure and energy sectors with particular experience in the Middle East, Asia and Africa markets, the firm said in a statement. Hogan Lovells considers London and Dubai strategically important markets for international arbitration and is delighted with their growth in those regions, the firm’s global practice leader Oliver Armas said in a statement. “Construction and engineering has a hugely exciting future throughout the Middle East, Africa, and Asia” McPherson said in a statement. Hogan Lovells in September brought two energy and pharma-focused litigation partners from King & Spalding to the firm’s San Francisco office. Atlanta-founded King & Spalding this week also saw four finance partners depart to Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in Charlotte, North Carolina, including Ronald Lovelace who will lead the leveraged finance practice, Cadwalader said in a statement. Lovelace will be united at Cadwalader with former colleague Mike Rupe, who headed King & Spalding’s financial restructuring practice before moving to the New York-headquartered firm to lead its special situations and reorganizations practice in September. King & Spalding last year poached the leader of Hogan Lovells' Middle East international arbitration practice Samaa Haridi in New York. A King & Spalding spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the departures to Hogan Lovells or Cadwalader. Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.